issue_130_stabilization_guide (#262)
rust-lang/rustc-guide: src/stabilization_guide.md

  previous steps).
- Any other relevant information(Examples of such reports can
  be found in rust-lang/rust#44494 and rust-lang/rust#28237).
- The resolutions of any unresolved questions if the stabilization
  is for an RFC.

## FCP

If any member of the team responsible for tracking this
feature agrees with stabilizing this feature, they will
start the FCP (final-comment-period) process by
commenting

```bash
@rfcbot fcp merge
```

The rest of the team members will review the proposal. If the final
decision is to stabilize, we proceed to do the actual code modification.

## Stabilization PR

Once we have decided to stabilize a feature, we need to have a PR that
actually makes that stabilization happen. These kinds of PRs are a
great way to get involved in Rust, as they take you on a little tour
through the source code.

Here is a general guide to how to stabilize a feature -- every feature
is different, of course, so some features may require steps beyond 
what this guide talks about.

Note: Before we stabilize any feature, it's the rule that it should appear
in the documentation.

### Updating the feature-gate listing

There is a central listing of feature-gates in

> `[src/libsyntax/feature_gate.rs]`. Search for the `declare_features!`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[`src/libsyntax/feature_gate.rs`]. Search for the `declare_features!`
```

Also, you will probably need to update the definition at the bottom of the target.

# Request for stabilization

>     Once an unstable feature has been well-tested with no outstanding

Reviewer: Could you please un-indent this paragraph? It renders as a code block. (also applies for a few other places below).

Author: done

    concern, anyone may push for its stabilization. It involves the
    following steps.

    - Documentation PRs
    - Write a stabilization report
    - FCP
    - Stabilization PR

## Documentation PRs

    Prepare PRs to update documentations involing this new feature.

>     You need to submit PRs for  repositories The Reference, The Book

Reviewer: It looks like this used to be a bulleted list?

Author: done

    and Rust by Example.
    Maintainers of these repositories will keep these PRs open until
    the whole stabilization process has completed. Meanwhile, we can
    proceed to the next step.

## Write a stabilization report

    Find the tracking issue of the feature, and create a short
    stabilization report. Essentially this would be a brief summary
    of the feature plus some links to test cases showing it works
    as expected, along with a list of edge cases that came up and
    and were considered. This is a minimal "due diligence" that
    we do before stabilizing.

    The report should contain:

        - A summary, showing examples (e.g. code snippets) what is
          enabled by this feature.
        - Links to test cases in our test suite regarding this feature
          and describe the feature's behavior on encountering edge cases.
        - Links to the documentations (the PRs we have made in the
          previous steps).
        - Any other relevant information(Examples of such reports can

>           be found in rust-lang/rust#44494 and rust-lang/rust#28237).

Reviewer: I would add one other bullet:

- The resolutions of any unresolved questions if the stabilization is for an RFC.

Author: done

## FCP

If any member of the team responsible for tracking this
feature agrees with stabilizing this feature, they will
start the FCP (final-comment-period) process by
commenting

    ```bash
    @rfcbot fcp merge
    ```

The rest of the team members will review the proposal. If the final
decision is to stabilize, we proceed to do the actual code modification.

## Stabilization PR

Once we have decided to stabilize a feature, we need to have a PR that
actually makes that stabilization happen. These kinds of PRs are a
great way to get involved in Rust, as they take you on a little tour
through the source code.

Here is a general guide to how to stabilize a feature -- every feature
is different, of course, so some features may require steps beyond 
what this guide talks about.

> Note: Before we stabilize any feature, it is rule that it should appear

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: Before we stabilize any feature, it's the rule that it should appear
```

in the documentation.

### Updating the feature-gate listing

There is a central listing of feature-gates in

> `src/libsyntax/feature_gate.rs`. Search for the `declare_features!`

Reviewer: Could you make this links to https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/nightly-rustc/syntax/feature_gate/index.html

Author: done

macro. There should be an entry for the feature you are aiming to
stabilize, something like (this example is taken from
[rust-lang/rust#32409]:

>     ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ```rust
```

Reviewer: Also, please un-indent this (also applies elsewhere)

Author: done

        // pub(restricted) visibilities (RFC 1422)
        (active, pub_restricted, "1.9.0", Some(32409)),
    ```
The above line should be moved down to the area for "accepted"
features, declared below in a separate call to `declare_features!`.
When it is done, it should look like:

    ```
    // pub(restricted) visibilities (RFC 1422)
    (accepted, pub_restricted, "1.31.0", Some(32409)),
    // ^^^^^^ note that we changed this
    ```

Note that, the version number is updated to be the version number
of the stable release where this feature will appear. This can be

> found by consulting https://forge.rust-lang.org/, which will guide

Reviewer: ```suggestion
found by consulting [the forge](https://forge.rust-lang.org/), which will guide
```

you the next stable release number. You want to add 1 to that,
because the code that lands today will become go into beta on that
date, and then become stable after that. So, at the time of this

> writing, the next stable release (what is currently beta, iow) was

Reviewer: ```suggestion
writing, the next stable release (i.e. what is currently beta) was
```

1.30.0, hence I wrote 1.31.0 above.

### Removing existing uses of the feature-gate

> Next search for the feature string (in this case, pub_restricted)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next search for the feature string (in this case, `pub_restricted`)
```

in the codebase to find where it appears. Change uses of

> `#![feature(XXX)]` from the stdlib and rustc crates to be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`#![feature(XXX)]` from the `libstd` and any rustc crates to be
```

`#![cfg_attr(stage0, feature(XXX))]`. This includes the feature-gate
only for stage0, which is built using the current beta (this is
needed because the feature is still unstable in the current beta).

Also, remove those strings from any tests. If there are tests
specifically targeting the feature-gate (i.e., testing that the
feature-gate is required to use the feature, but nothing else),
simply remove the test.

### Do not require the feature-gate to use the feature

Most importantly, remove the code which flags an error if the
feature-gate is not present (since the feature is now considered
stable). If the feature can be detected because it employs some
new syntax, then a common place for that code to be is in the
same `feature_gate.rs`. For example, you might see code like this:

    ```
    gate_feature_post!(&self, pub_restricted, span,
     "`pub(restricted)` syntax is experimental");
    ```

This `gate_feature_post!` macro prints an error if the
`pub_restricted` feature is not enabled. It is not needed
now that `#[pub_restricted]` is stable.

For more subtle features, you may find code like this:

>     ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ```rust
```

    if self.tcx.sess.features.borrow().pub_restricted { /* XXX */ }
    ```

This `pub_restricted` field (obviously named after the feature)
would ordinarily be false if the feature flag is not present
and true if it is. So transform the code to assume that the field
is true. In this case, that would mean removing the `if` and
leaving just the `/* XXX */`.

>     ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ```rust
```

    if self.tcx.sess.features.borrow().pub_restricted { /* XXX */ }

>     = becomes ==>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ```
becomes
```rust
```

    /* XXX */

    if self.tcx.sess.features.borrow().pub_restricted && something { /* XXX */ }

>     = becomes ==>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ```
becomes
```rust
```

    if something { /* XXX */ }
    ```

## Updating documentation

If any documentation for this feature exists, it should be

> in the `Unstable Book`, located at `src/doc/unstable-book`.

Reviewer: Could you make these into links to https://doc.rust-lang.org/unstable-book/index.html and https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/tree/master/src/doc/unstable-book, respectively?

> Regardless of its existence, the page for the feature gate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If it exists, the page for the feature gate
```

should be removed.

If there was documentation there, integrating it into the
existing documentation is needed.

If there wasn't documentation there, it needs to be added.

Places that may need updated documentation:

>     [The Reference]: this must be updated, in full detail.

Reviewer: Please make this a bulleted list.
